Uber is a very interesting company.
Mainly because it is an authentic
clock bomb and it is that, fix you,
it has all the records as to
the company that loses the most
money every year, the company
that grows the most, the startup
that has reached higher
values and in addition in the
last years PanamaSindri has
become a super controversial
company.
He has been involved in numerous
scandals in recent years, which
we will see.
Let's start by looking at
Uber's business model.
The first thing I want you to consider
is that it is a platform on
demand.
Uber is not a marketplace.
In a marketplace, for example,
let's think of Airbnb, the
offer sets the prices.
The offer is usually very automated.
In the case of Uber, this is not the case.
In the case of Uber and other
on-demand platforms, the prices and
guarantees of the service, etc.,
are offered by the platform itself.
We are looking at the Canvas business model.
We have made a mirror mode adaptation
where we have placed both sides
of the platform's two
customer segments.
On one side we have the drivers
and on the other we have the
passengers.
The value proposal for travelers,
you know, is transport services
with a more technological
user experience than
that of a taxi with more economical
prices in almost all
types of travel, etc.
We will not get into this.
And then we have the drivers.
It is important to note that
depending on the legislation
of different countries,
the model is different.
There are places like in Spain that
are regulated.
Then drivers have to have a
certain license, which
in Spain is called VTC, but this
is not the important thing.
And in other places, like in the vast majority
of the United States, it is not regulated.
Anyone can be
a Uber driver.
What is Uber's offer
to drivers?
Basically what is offered are
or additional income, whether
you are a sporadic driver
or actually a job, if you
are a regular driver.
In any case, the drivers
are not Uber employees.
This is a platform.
And now we'll look at how
the revenue flow and main costs
of all the money that is
transacted on Uber work,
that's when you hire a trip
on Uber, pay through the app,
give 100%, 80% goes to the driver
and 20% goes to the platform
around 80-20, although
this is changing.
We already understand the business model.
It's a business model in principle
that seems profitable and sustainable,
however, the reality
is that Uber has so far failed
to be profitable.
Not only that, but Uber is the company
that loses the most money.
In 2017 alone, the losses
were $4.5 trillion, that
is, $4.5 billion,
which is a real barbarism.
And look, so that you understand
the dimension of what we are
talking about, we'll compare it to Amazon.
Amazon may sound like you, for
many years it has been losing
and this has made everyone
question Amazon and Jeff Bezos'
management.
No one does it now, but in
the past it did.
Well, because the year that lost the
most money Amazon, the amount
of losses was 1.2 trillion.
Compared to Uber last year.
It is a barbarism, it is a
machine to lose money.
Let's do an analysis of why you are
losing so much money.
We will do this from
a purely financial perspective
and we will do so by analyzing
the 2017 results.
You will see that the numbers are
not coming out.
Uber commissions 20% on all
transactions within Uber.
This amount is about
10% of the variable cost.
So we would be talking about the
margin of 10%.
The current structure
is 15.6 percent.
As you can see, it is not a sum.
And here, of course, we say that a
company once it loses so much money,
which is the one that loses the most
money in the world, we understand that
it will be led to failure.
It seems to be the opposite.
And proof of this is that it has
beat all records in terms of
valuations, in terms of raised
money, in terms of interest on
the part of investors,
etc.
It has reached valuations close
to $70 trillion.
And for you to make the idea is much
more valued than companies like
Airbnb, for example.
And if we compare it with listed
companies, by the way, Uber is not
a listed company.
It is expected to be out of stock.
We were talking about 2018-2019.
But, well, with all the controversy that
has been, it is possible that it will be delayed.
It's not a good time for Uber to go to
the stock market.
We'll compare it to giant listed
companies like Ford or General
Motors.
Well, I want you to know that
Uber, despite losing so much money,
is a much more valuable company
than Ford or General Motors.
And here it seems we are losing
something, because what is the explanation
for all this?
How can it be that losing so
much money is such a valuable company?
Let us try to understand it.
On the one hand, this is
a very simple conclusion, there
is the growth of sales.
Uber loses money, but every year
its sales grow enormously.
Here is the graph.
We are looking at the volume of
transactions, of everything that
is transacted within the platform.
And we are seeing that in 2017
it grew by about 50%.
It is a real barbarism.
Well, this has to be taken into
account because we are talking
about a very scalable model,
in which if you continue to grow
at this rate, but your structure
costs, remember that the structure
costs weighed 15.6%, but
if your structure costs
do not grow proportionately,
there will be a time, as it
happens in sales, it is
reversed and those giant
losses are likely to become,
given that huge volume
of income, become very
quantitative profits.
Another fact to keep in mind is that
Uber is currently still in a very
aggressive phase of
international expansion and this,
of course, requires, during that
phase, that your investments and
costs be very high and that you
profit those investments in
a timeframe.
All this is quite obvious, but
we'll go, we'll go again, we'll
see the business model.
Remember what was the
main cost.
The main cost part is the
drivers' payments, which
are around 80% of the
total sales.
Here is the key, here is
the lever.
If Uber manages to reduce,
imagine, since from 80 to 70%,
it would be increasing its margin
by 50%, and if we multiply it by
the astronomical amounts it
transacts is very much money.
How can you do this?
Well, as you gain market
share, it is possible
that you will or will have
more trading power over drivers
and you can play with
those margins.
But what really would have
a greater impact on the result
account is if Uber was able
to eliminate drivers' costs.
I'll think about it, but how is it
possible?
This is impossible because of course,
Uber's model requires drivers.
Well, Uber has been investing
in technology for developing
autonomous driving in recent
years, as Google has
been doing too.
He has invested in autonomous cars
and has also bought a company
called Oto, which are trucks also
with autonomous driving.
This project is stopped because there
was a crash in the United States
and a girl died with one of these
cars, then they stopped the project,
at least temporarily, but imagine
that in a time frame, it is possible
that this will not happen in the
short term, it will not happen
in the short term, but we are
talking about 5 or 10 years.
Uber currently transacts $37
trillion with a main cost that
is 80% of that amount, which
is the cost of drivers,
imagine that it can
eliminate that game.
It would become one of the most
valuable companies in the world.
Finally, let's talk about the
controversy.
I've said before that Uber is an extreme
company in everything.
It is also extreme in this.
From the first day, their business
model has generated huge
clashes against the main player
in their industry, which are taxis
and taxis always considered
to be unfair competition
and this because that imagines,
trials, strikes, etc.,
all over the world.
Uber also faces, that this is
a big risk, faces legal contentious
at certain sites,
with the risk that it will
legally be obliged to hire
drivers, to incorporate
them within the company.
Of course, this would have a huge
impact on the business model,
because it would cease to be a scalable,
flexible, etc., and would go
from good to first to have
tens of thousands of employees,
with the impact that it has
on the account of results.
But it is that in addition in recent
years there has been a lot
of controversy, for example, Travis
Kalakny, who is one of the
co-founders of Uber, is a very
controversial figure, gave his support,
participated in a council
related to the Trump campaign
and there was a campaign against
Uber on Twitter, with a hashtag
that was delete Uber, which managed
to 200 thousand people in three
days to uninstall the app.
But this is not here, because
an employee in a hashtag posted
that she had suffered sexual
harassment, that there is discrimination,
there has been a lot of noise
in recent years, and this has
led to the president leaving Uber
and also publicly stated that
he didn't like Uber practices,
or for example, that Travis
Kalakny was eventually forced,
because several of the company's
main investors asked
him, the CEO and co-founder
was forced to resign.